# Content

I met Pedro when I was in High School about 13 years ago. One of my friends said there's this guy from the town over that rides BMX and he was going to meet up at some spot to ride. I remember Pedro didn't speak any english and my spanish was non exsitant but we had a good time. We became friends right away. Fast forward to the summer of 2018 and I was working for our friend Craig's Dad, a stonemason, and Pedro was showing me the ropes. Between mixing concrete and moving earth, Pedro, who now speaks English, and another one of the guys I worked with, Sal, would try to teach me Spanish a bit. Most of it was just joking around. How to say *the boss is coming!* and *it's lunchtime!* would be on the final exam for this class. Pedro would call Sal *Colocho* which means curly in Central America, I never asked why. Sal had a crew cut and what looked like straight hair. Years later I was walking through a marker in Guatemala and a vendor yelled at me: *Colocho, compra algo para tu mujer*. I thought of my constuction buddies. Craig's dad would joke and tell me he'd pay me double if I could tell him what they were saying about him. They would laugh at him and say *doble cara*. 

Knowing my summer with these guys was coming to a close, I brought my [Canon AE-1](https://global.canon/en/c-museum/product/film93.html) to work and did my best film photographer impersonation. It was a gift from a close friend and still my favorite gift ever. Maybe one day I'll learn how to use it correctly. I took some photos of Pedro getting the mixer ready in the morning before getting to work. I regret never getting a clear photo of the whole gang together, the closest I got can be seen above. From left to right you can see Craig, Sal, and Pedro in the worst photo I've ever taken, a blurry mess. It was my last day working with them before I went back to college for my senior year. Pedro has been telling me since we met that I need to learn to speak Spanish and that summer served as a catalyst to my learning. It was nice to attend Pedro's wedding recently and be able to follow what was being said during the service. I'm certain my dude Pedro, or Pepe as we sometimes call him, will be making another appearance on Fredducation. There's just too many stories I can share about my friend. 

I quit a caddying job I had done for 7 years to work with Craig, Pedro, and Sal that summer. I learned some spanish, sure, but more importantly I put myself on the path to discover this thing that I enjoy doing everyday: learning language. Sure I'm still just focusing on one language at the moment but I enjoy picking up bits of others along the way. I guess the lesson here is quit that job you hate, start the other one you know nothing about, jump into the unknown every once in a while, change it up, yada yada. You never know what you'll learn. 