# Content 

Baseball used to be the first thing that came to mind when I thought of Venezuela. These days I think of my buddy Randixon, or Randy for short. I rolled up to Parque Carolina in Quito one day with my bike ready to ride and meet some people. He was there with his buddy Christian, another Venezuelan, and a group of locals riding. It was my first day riding in Quito and I was trying to get out of my comfort zone and really communicate with different people, so it was a relief when they made it easy on me and came to me and said hello. While everyone was very polite and invitied me to join the riding session, Randy was particularly welcoming. He's a high energy guy who loves to ride bikes, encourages his friends to push themselves, and hopes you return that energy back to him. He speaks with a thick Venezuelan accent and, true to form as a caribbean person, speaks pretty loud. As a language learner, I found it super helpful. Combine that with Randy's positive attitude and you've got a good friend who is great to be around. 

That first day at the park Randy, Christian, and I were chatting for a while as the rest of the crew sort of disperesed slowly as the afternoon went on. Randy suggested we go ride some local spots so we did just that. That first day Randy taught me just how much vocabulary is a 1:1 carry over from english with respect to BMX, especially when it comes to spots (I believe we would call this a [loanword](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loanword) but I may be wrong in some respect). I talk about this on this site's [about page](https://www.fredducation.co/about/) and it holds true here, the people I meet are, in part, my teachers. We rode some spots around La Carolina that day, I got some clips for a project I've been working on and we called it a day. I would be in Quito for another few months and riding with Randy at Parque Carolina became a semi-regular thing. One day I brought the Fujifilm to the park and was able to get a few shots of Randy practicing his feebles and smiths on the flat ledges and sub-boxes in the parks street section. Randy asked if he could take some photos with the camera, so the shot of the yellow bike leaned against the ledge is Randy's work, I hope you all enjoy it. 

As my time in Quito was nearing it's end I had a list of spots that I wanted to visit and film myself doing tricks on or taking a photo at. I had walked by a wishbone shaped tree plenty of times while doing my routine walks with my wife around the park and thought how perfect it was to jump a bicycle through. I told randy about it and in my last week there, we met up at the skate park to get a photo of him doing a barspin that you can see above. We took that energy up the block to the wishbone tree. When we got there a security guard had parked his motorcycle right where we would land so Randy asked nicely if he could move it so I could jump through the tree. He happily obliged so I could get it done. I'm not some mad man on a bike, I'm easily scared and doubt my abiites often. In fact I need to pump myself up often to do just about anything. I ride BMX because it feels good overcoming these fears, it's as if I'm going to sleep a stronger person that I woke up, someone who believes in themself. Anyway, Randy noticied that I was scared and encouraged me. So I sent it and took a nice chunck out of the tree with my peg, and did it again, until the third time when I did it clean. My wife captured the moment above. Then I got a photo of Randy doing it. It was awesome. Afterward I told the security guard who was getting off break that it was his turn. He laughed and called me crazy. It was time to get dinner so we said our goodbyes and hit the road. I didn't see Randy again because our time in Quito got cut even shorter than expected but I'll have to make my way back to say hello to mi pana. 