# Content

When I first set out to learn Spanish, I really didn't know where to start. I gave it a google and got overwhelmed pretty quickly with all of the resources and services trying to get my money. When I popped into [r/languagelearning](https://www.reddit.com/r/languagelearning/), a place I rarely visit these days, I noticed plenty of posts mentioning this thing called Anki and spaced repetition but I hadn't heard of either at the time. They ended up having a pretty big impact on my language learning journey so I thought I'd share that in this post. 

### What is Spaced Repetition?

It's pretty simple actually. Let's imagine you've just learned how to say cat in Spanish, *gato*. Now the strength of your memory of this word will decay as time goes on, we'll call this the forgetting curve, unless you review it periodically. Spaced repetition theory posits that if you review it just as you are about to forget it (some critical point in the forgetting curve) you'll not only retain the word but the rate at which your memory decays next time will be less dramatic or it will take longer for you to forget going forward so long as you continue to review. If my write up isn't doing it for you, [this YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cVf38y07cfk) really knocked it outta the park. I also found the [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spaced_repetition) article on the subject pretty informative. Are your teachers and parents right? Does studying over a long period of times, consistently help your retain information if you wait long enough in between sessions? I don't know. Some say cramming before exams is bad, some of us still remember how to write out Rotation Matrices and Reynolds transport theorem after only studying the night before and never going to class. Now that we've covered the theory let's move on. 

### What is Anki? 

So [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) is a Spaced Repetition Software or more often referred to as an *SRS*. It's essentially a flashcard program on steroids with tons of customization features that aim to help users learn anything from foreign language, law, medicine, to trivia. In my case it was Spanish vocabulary. When a user is shown the front of a card, they can then reveal the other side and rate the difficulty of the card. Based on that difficulty, Anki will decide when to review that card again with the user using some algorithm under the hood. I have not made any attempt to really understand this algorithm due to a lack of interest. It's based on that of an earlier SRS called [SuperMemo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SuperMemo). The official site can be found[here](https://www.supermemo.com/en). If you're feeling up to it you can jump in and pick it apart [here](https://www.supermemo.com/en/blog/application-of-a-computer-to-improve-the-results-obtained-in-working-with-the-supermemo-method). Anki's documentation has also touched on it's connection to this algorithm in [this article](https://faqs.ankiweb.net/what-spaced-repetition-algorithm.html). The app has so many features. One can download shared decks from the community,build their own decks, change settings related to the frequency of reviews, how many new cards to see each day, put audio and images in cards, put a timer on cards, create cloze cards (fill in the blank, kinda), video, or even entire passages of articles. There are tons of possibilities, they are not just limited to vocabulary, in fact many are not that. With the exception of the app store, Anki is free. Apple hit me with the one time $20 payment, if I remember correctly. I got my use of it I think. Now this may sound like an endorsement but hold your horses, this is just a fair description. 

### Did Anki and Spaced Repetition Help Me?

I think it did. I used it when I was just starting out and I just sort of did whatever the regulars on the language learning subreddit recommended. Looking back, I lucked out. Why? Given that I already knew how to pronounce Spanish words, it was pretty easy for me to download a shared deck of the *"X most common words in Spanish"* and do my repetitions everyday. There were no conjugations in the deck, just nouns and infinitives. I'd say a good amount of my base vocab came from that deck that I've since forgotten the name of. While doing the deck I was messing around with a ton of other resources trying to find something that I enjoyed but was coming up empty most of the time. It wasn't until I discovered [Language Transfer](https://www.languagetransfer.org/) that everything changed for me, but that's for another time. In my opinion, it's really a supplement. I think if you know nothing of a language, it's best to learn some pronunciation, maybe the alphabet, some basic grammar, useful vocab, then reinforce it with something like anki. Otherwise you'll find yourself with a freshly downloaded deck of Arabic not knowing what the hell you're looking at. I personally didn't find it fun, it was a grind and that hurt the learning process for sure. I did it because I thought that was what I was supposed to do as a language learner: suffer. These days I only do learning "exercises" I enjoy and I retain those things with such ease. If I had to do it again, I would build my own deck with words or phrases that I had encountered many times in the wild, that I consistently had difficulty with, so that I could work on them. I think when I begin learning another language I will give this approach a try and see if it holds. 


In the slide show I shared some Images of what the anki app looks like. It's not the prettiest, but it gets the job done. It also show various statistics about your reviews if your into that sort of thing. Most images are taken directly from the [anki docs](https://docs.ankiweb.net/deck-options.html), some are screenshots of the app on my phone. Like everything else I say, give it a try and see if it's for you. If it's not, that's fine. There's a way out there that will work for you. I wouldn't sweat it. 


