# Content 

### What is Readlang? 

Some services likely have us on the hook for life-Spotify, the local electic company, ISPs, The New York Mets to name a few.  For me, another one has been thrown into the mix but I welcome it. [Readlang](https://readlang.com/landing-page) is a reading tool for language learners. You can upload content to Readlang or run the Readlang chrome extension and what those enable you to do is read in your target language with the aid of translations and dictionaries at your finger tips. How is this useful? I'll give you an example. You're reading something that you mostly understand and you come along a word or phrase that's new so you use the translation feature by highlighting this word or phrase. Right there above the highlighted section is the translation, you say to yourself "okay it means that" and continue on. When you come across it again, you may just remember it from last time and dont have to disturb your reading process too much by stopping to lookup a word in a different app. Even better, everything you highlight gets saved to your very own deck of flashcards that you can review on Readlang's site if you so choose for a little extra review. After months of daily reading, I've established a pattern of translating the same thing, showing that I have difficulty with some concepts so it's given me things to focus on. There's a good amount of useful features built in to the app that I'll talk about but before that I want to convey the significance of reading in one's target language. 

### Why Reading is so Important

There was a point in my language learning where I wondered how I'm supposed to aquire new vocabulary without rote memorization drills like flashcards. I dont remember where, but I came across the work of [Steven Krashen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Krashen) who will most definitely get an article dedicated to him here on Fredducation. He believes that when a learner understands most of the material, but not all, that through context they will begin to acquire what they do not. This does not just apply to reading but listening as well. More recently he concluded that reading is one of the best sources of this kind of learning. Is here correct about reading? I believe he is but lets analyze this and see that It makes almost intutive sense. Let's say I load a graded reader into Readlang that I mostly understand and begin reading. I understand 90% of the material and through that context I am able to comprehend what the other 10% means and thanks to the tools in Readlang, I can double check that I'm correct. While reading I am repeatedly exposed to common words and grammatical stucutres, actively reinforcing my understanding of these things through different uses. I continute reading even more material while slightly increasing difficulty as I go. Perhaps just as Important as all the rest, I have chosen what I'm reading based on my personal interest so that my attention is fixed and I'm enjoying myself. I keep doing this over a long period of time and through repeated exposure to the language in this way, I have aquired a great deal of it. If that does not sound like something that can happen, perhaps my personal experience can convince you that it indeed can. 

### Has reading with Readlang helped me?

About 18 months ago I couldn't read very much of anything outside of the most simple stories in Spanish in which everything was in the present tense. I came across Readlang and these theories of reading and loaded up some graded readers and children's stories to get started. I read most days and kept reading until it was time to find new material that was a bit more difficult that I could still undersatnd, and then I read some more. Just like the good doctor said, it just came to me. I noticied my comprehension was increasing and that I was using the translations feature less and less as time went on. I almost never used the flashcard feature built in to Readlang until about two months ago so I know my progress came from just opening the app and reading a bit each day. Fast forward to today and I can read just about anything I want and understand the vast majority of it. Even better my knowledge of grammar has imporved such that I just know why somethings work and others dont without being able to explain it, sort of like how my understanding of grammar in my native language is to me: things just are. Furthermore, my [subvocalization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subvocalization#:~:text=Subvocalization%2C%20or%20silent%20speech%2C%20is,read%2C%20potentially%20reducing%20cognitive%20load.) and decent pronuncation has enabled this reading to improve my listening comprehension. I can more easily identify what natives are saying becuase I have come across the words and grammatical structures in my reading and know how they are supposed to be pronounced. I'd say that reading with Readlang has been the single best thing that I've done to improve my Spanish consdiering all of this. 

### Readlang Features 

Like I previously mentioned the main feature of the web app is the ability to highlight any part of a passage and get a realtime translations right above that selection and continute reading with minimal interuption. However there are lots of features available to one, like uploading your own texts, browseing other user uploaded texts that have been shared with the Readlang community, reviewing flashcards created from what you have previously highlighted through Readlang's built in [SRS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spaced_repetition) (*for more on SRS see my artile on the topic [here](https://www.fredducation.co/articles/resource-anki/)*, and opening a Readlang browser extension on other sites to bring all these features with you as you surf the web. I have attached some photos of the site above and some of these features but the professional developer over at Readlang has made many comprehensive videos that walk users through all of this and put them together in [this YouTube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLIGa-eWCssj9K_PpNGLnIs8vcENanVx3_) that I highly recommend to anyone interested. There is also a [blog](https://blog.readlang.com/posts) on the site that covers just about everything mentioned plus more. 

I hope you've taken something useful away from this article. I plan to pin it to the homepage and update it from time to time. The photos attached are of the app's features, pricing, and the app as I see it on my computer. At the time of writing this I'm holding down a decent reading streak. I love my streaks. 


